OFFICE OF THE HOSTEL MANAGEMENT
OFFICE OF THE HOSTEL MANAGEMENT INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY MADRAS
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY MADRAS RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR HOSTEL RESIDENTS
RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR HOSTEL RESIDENTS (Extract: Please read the Hostel Manual for complete details)
lease read the Hostel Manual for complete details) ANTI-RAGGING AFFIDAVIT SIGNED BY THE STUDENT AND PARENT MUST BE DEPOSITED WITH HOSTEL OFFICE ON THE DAY OF JOINING THE INSTITUTE
HOSTEL OFFICE ON THE DAY OF JOINING THE INSTITUTE 1. ROOM ALLOTMENT, CONDITIONS AND EXEMPTIONS
All students admitted to the Institute shall reside in the Hostels.
tted to the Institute shall reside in the Hostels. Students will be categorized as 'vacation category' or 'non-vacation category'.
as 'vacation category' or 'non-vacation category'. Vacation category students are required to vacate while leaving on vacation.
are required to vacate while leaving on vacation. All students who will pursue a part of their academic programmes elsewhere for more than 90 (ninety) days must vacate their rooms.
ore than 90 (ninety) days must vacate their rooms. All research scholars shall vacate their rooms after submission of their thesis.
cate their rooms after submission of their thesis. All students shall pay establishment A and B charges for the entire semester, including vacation period.
or the entire semester, including vacation period. Accommodation is available only for full time registered students/scholars with Institute Roll No.
gistered students/scholars with Institute Roll No. More than one student may have to stay in the same room.
han one student may have to stay in the same room. Change in status of Registration must be informed and room vacated as per rules.
on must be informed and room vacated as per rules. Students should vacate their rooms when the OHM requires them to carry out routine maintenance work.
quires them to carry out routine maintenance work. Exemption request for every semester shall be sent to the Dean Students, in the prescribed form, online.
the Dean Students, in the prescribed form, online. The exempted students shall pay Hostel Establishment "A", Student's Mediclaim Insurance (SMI) (varies from year to year) to the Institute.
(SMI) (varies from year to year) to the Institute. In case married students/research scholars / QIP scholars are allotted a room in the hostel in the first instance, the charges are payable for one semester even if they vacate the hostel in the middle of the semester. In such cases, hostel accommodation is provided to the student and not to the spouse or children.
to the student and not to the spouse or children. 2. CODE OF CONDUCT
All residents shall be courteous and fair with every one, both inside and outside the campus.
ith every one, both inside and outside the campus. All residents shall carry their Institute Identity Cards and produce them on demand.
stitute Identity Cards and produce them on demand. All residents are expected to be back in the hostels before 11.00 pm. Late arrival may be permitted by the Warden concerned.
arrival may be permitted by the Warden concerned. All civil and electrical complaints shall be brought to the notice of the Hostel Office and/or Assistant Warden for rectification.
Office and/or Assistant Warden for rectification. The students should not screen pirated/unauthorized/unlicensed movies.
not screen pirated/unauthorized/unlicensed movies. All damages caused in the room will be made good during vacation of room. The Hostel Office shall check the room inventory before issuing No Dues Certificate.
room inventory before issuing No Dues Certificate. Furniture and other fitments shall not be moved from one place to another.
ents shall not be moved from one place to another. Walls, doors, windows and shelves shall not be defaced, including pasting posters. A fine amount proportional to the damage shall be levied, in case of violation.
the damage shall be levied, in case of violation. Ragging is criminal offence and shall be dealt with as per ruling of Honourable Supreme Court to the extent of expulsion from the Institute with endorsement in the documents.
m the Institute with endorsement in the documents. Possession, smoking and consumption of alcoholic drinks and / or narcotic drugs in the hostel premises or entering hostel in intoxicated state are strictly prohibited. Disciplinary action may include expulsion/rustication from Hostel/Institute.
clude expulsion/rustication from Hostel/Institute. Abnormal activities of any nature, causing disturbance to the neighbours should not be carried out in the room.
neighbours should not be carried out in the room. Residents shall not participate in any anti-national, anti-social or undesirable activities.
i-national, anti-social or undesirable activities. 3. GUESTS
Guest (for allotment of rooms) denotes only the parents or a blood relative.
oms) denotes only the parents or a blood relative. Guests may be allowed to stay in Hostel Guest Rooms on payment of the charges as applicable. The approval has to be obtained a week in advance from OHM.
val has to be obtained a week in advance from OHM. No overnight guest is permitted in a student's room.
overnight guest is permitted in a student's room. Entertaining unauthorized guests in the Hostels will result in expulsion from the Hostels.
Hostels will result in expulsion from the Hostels. No person of the opposite sex, guest or otherwise shall stay overnight in hostel zone.
or otherwise shall stay overnight in hostel zone. 4. VISITOR
All visitors to the hostel including parents/guardians shall record their visit in the visitors book available with the security guard.
e visitors book available with the security guard. The girl students of IIT Madras alone are permitted to visit the rooms of boys' student for academic purpose provided they deposit their ID card with the hostel security and sign up in the visitor's book. No girl/women visitor including sisters are allowed entry into a boy's room in a hostel and vice versa. The visit is restricted to the hostel office / visitor's hall / dining hall. Parents / guardians of the students, however may be permitted by the Warden to visit the room of their ward during the visiting hour, i.e., 7.00 am to 9.00 pm. Visitors, including parents, cannot stay overnight without prior permission.
s, cannot stay overnight without prior permission. On rare occasions/emergencies, with permission of Warden, visit of boys to the girls hostel may be permitted between 7 a.m. and 9 p.m.
hostel may be permitted between 7 a.m. and 9 p.m. 5. BOARDING
All residents shall be full boarders. Accommodation alone is not available in the hostels.
commodation alone is not available in the hostels. Mess rebate may be considered (only on advance intimation) when a resident is away on Academic / Medical grounds continuously for more than six days, with prior approval of the HoD/the Warden.
x days, with prior approval of the HoD/the Warden. Mess halls are public places where boarders shall conduct themselves properly and shall follow proper dress code. Entry into the dining hall shall be on production of ID / Smart Card / Mess Card.
l be on production of ID / Smart Card / Mess Card. 6. USE OF ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE
Use of electrical appliances of any kind and cooking is prohibited in rooms. Violations shall attract confiscation of the appliance, monetary fine and disciplinary action.
appliance, monetary fine and disciplinary action. Audio system, if used should not be disturbing to the other residents.
d should not be disturbing to the other residents. Use of personal computer/laptop by a resident for academic purpose is permitted.
p by a resident for academic purpose is permitted. Washer-men (Dhobies) are not encouraged in the hostel.
er-men (Dhobies) are not encouraged in the hostel. 7. COLLECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES
Damage to the hostel properties will be the collective responsibilities of all residents and they will be required to make good such damage, if the students who caused the damage could not be identified.
nts who caused the damage could not be identified. Resident should not indulge in practices/activities, which may endanger their own personal safety as well as others.
anger their own personal safety as well as others. When leaving rooms, occupants shall ensure that lights, fans and sockets in use for laptop etc., are switched off. Valuables such as Laptop, Mobile Phone etc., shall be under lock and key. Rooms must be locked when one is out - even for a short period.
locked when one is out - even for a short period. Residents shall obey all traffic rules inside the campus.
ts shall obey all traffic rules inside the campus. Residents are duty bound to report to the Warden/Assistant Warden in case they notice any unwanted incidents or undesirable activity in the hostel or on the campus.
desirable activity in the hostel or on the campus. Residents are required to park cycles only in the space provided, in an orderly manner. It is the responsibility of the resident to register their bicycle with the security section. All cycles must bear the token issued by the security section. No cycle should be parked at the entrance or in the corridors.
uld be parked at the entrance or in the corridors. Use of powered vehicle by students is not permitted. Day scholars using powered vehicle shall park the vehicle in the designated place near the Central workshop. Violations will attract monetary fine besides disciplinary action.
attract monetary fine besides disciplinary action. Students shall not arrange any function within the hostel, outside or within the Institute campus without specific permission of the Warden/Faculty Advisor.
specific permission of the Warden/Faculty Advisor. Students shall not arrange any picnic outside without specific permission of the Warden / Faculty Advisor.
ecific permission of the Warden / Faculty Advisor. Residents are required to be conscious of the environment in which they live by keeping it clean, healthy and presentable. Students should not throw litter/plastic indiscriminately.
should not throw litter/plastic indiscriminately. Hostel property shall not be taken out of the hostel.
tel property shall not be taken out of the hostel. Students should not take mess items like plate / spoon to their room.
take mess items like plate / spoon to their room. Pets are not allowed in the rooms/hostels.
Pets are not allowed in the rooms/hostels. Complaints / suggestion regarding food and water are welcome. Please contact Warden / Asst. Warden / General Secretary / Mess Secretary for action.
n / General Secretary / Mess Secretary for action. Consumption of fast food / packed food delivered to hostel room by outside / unapproved agencies is not encouraged.
y outside / unapproved agencies is not encouraged. 8. VACATING THE HOSTEL
Vacating Form, duly completed shall be handed over before vacating the room.
ted shall be handed over before vacating the room. No Dues Certificate shall be issued after receipt of vacating form, inspecting the room for damages, if any and payment of semester fee.
m for damages, if any and payment of semester fee. 9. RIGHTS OF HOSTEL MANAGEMENT
Any breach of these rules will be dealt with by the Intra HDC/HDC to the extent of expulsion, at short notice, from the hostel.
nt of expulsion, at short notice, from the hostel. The Hostel Management reserves its right to change these rules from time to time. The changes shall be updated in ccw.iitm.ac.in.
e. The changes shall be updated in ccw.iitm.ac.in. Deviations, if any, necessitated by prevailing circumstances shall be permitted by the OHM on written recommendation by the Warden concerned.
on written recommendation by the Warden concerned. On all matters not covered in the manual and in case of any doubt with respect to the meaning and connotation of the content herein, the OHM shall clarify. The decision / clarification by the OHM shall be final and binding upon all those concerned with the Hostel Management.