INDIAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY MADRAS
Academic Section
Circular No. 5B/JM2024/C11/2024 Dated 12.02.2024
Sub: Graded punishments to the students who indulge in unfair means
during all examinations and assignments
….. It is brought to the notice of all the students that the following graded punishments
approved by the Senate will be imposed on those who indulge in Academic Malpractices
– unfair means during all examinations and assignments:
I For rude behavior:
a) Severe warning shall be issued to a student who is found to display rude behavior
towards fellow students / invigilators. b) The student is liable to be expelled from the examination hall. c) In such cases, the parents of that student would be informed of such indiscipline. II Malpractices and corresponding Punishments:
Nature of Malpractice Recommended Punishment
Communicating with neighbors in the examination The erring student(s) shall be awarded `U’ grade in the
1. hall subject concerned and 30 hours of library work. Possessing incriminating* materials inside the The Discipline and Welfare of Students Sub-committee
2. examination hall shall have the discretion to recommend one of the
(or) following punishments in addition to confiscation of
Possessing the answer book of another candidate materials and hold till the decision is given. (or)
Passing on answer book to another student i) The student(s) shall be given a U grade in that
(or) subject and shall be on probation for a repeat
Exchange of question papers, with some answers academic offence until the student(s) complete(s) the
jotted down on them requirements of the intended degree. Within the
(or) probation period, if the student(s) is (are) proved
Individual referral of material/discussion with other guilty of a repeat academic offence, the student(s)
students, during visit outside the examination hall shall be awarded a ‘U’ grade in all the subjects in the
concerned semester. (or)
ii) If the DWC is convinced about the grave nature of
an academic offence, other than the possibilities
given in (2), the student shall be awarded a `U’ grade
in all the subjects in the concerned semester. 3. Impersonation in the examination The concerned student
i) shall be awarded `U’ grade in all subjects, in the
concerned semester
and
ii) Shall be debarred from attending classes and taking
examinations in the next two subsequent semesters. 4.
minations in the next two subsequent semesters. 4. a) Plagiarism in graded assignments for the first time i) ‘0’ marks for copied assignment
And
ii) One grade less in the subject and In case of ‘E’ or ‘U’
or ‘P’ grade obtained, then same grade to be retained
in the concerned semester and 50 hours of library
work
b) Repeated Plagiarism (i) ‘U’ Grade in the course
5. Plagiarism/ Data Manipulation in documents related Expert committee will be constituted by Dean
to projects, research activities, thesis, etc. (Academic Research) for MS / Ph.D. scholars and by
(Academic Research) for MS / Ph.D. scholars and by Dean (Academic Courses) for B.Tech / DD / M.Tech
students.
For lower level of offense Recommended
Punishment:
a. MS / Ph.D. / M.Tech / DD: Six months delay in
submission of thesis & penalty of an amount
equivalent to two months of fellowship.
b. B.Tech: ‘U’ grade in project and will not be
allowed to do projects for next two semesters.
For severe level of offense Recommended
Punishment:
a. MS / Ph.D. / M.Tech / DD: Debarring from the
Institute.
b. B.Tech: ‘U’ grade in project and will not be
allowed to do project till graduation.
6. Discontinuing the program/ course without 1. Hostel & Institute Caution Deposit will be
completing the proper relieving formalities of the
forfeited. &
Institute for the purpose of pursuing a job/any
2. Prorated hostel fees for the period the hostel room
reason.
was locked to be settled by the student. &
3. Tuition fees to be paid for the full semester during
which the student has discontinued the program.
&
4. To refund the HTTA/HTRA received after the
date of discontinuation.
7. Forging of any document. Two Semesters compulsory withdrawal from the
programme.
(* incriminating materials include written/printed material; unauthorized additional sheets without or with write-ups,
bits, scribbles on scales / handkerchief / on the body; abuse of calculator / organizer / cell phone, etc.)
III Students who were given any of the above punishments, will not be eligible to seek
Supplementary Exam or Contact Course in the subject concerned.
Sd/-
Assistant Registrar (Academics)
To: All the Students – thro’ students@smail.iitm.ac.in
Copy to: 1. All Head of the Department’s – thro’ email
2. All faculty – thro’ faculty@list.iitm.ac.in